At least 50 deaths blamed on India heat wave in just a week as record temperatures scorch the country - CBS News Watch CBS News What are heat-related warning signs? What are the warning signs of heat-related illness? 01:34 New Delhi — More than 50 deaths have been blamed on scorching early summer heat in India over the last week alone, as temperatures in northern and eastern regions have soared to record highs. After arriving early this year , the summer heat has been unrelenting, with temperatures climbing over the 50 degree Celsius mark, or 122 degrees Fahrenheit, in several cities many times. Capital New Delhi recorded the country's highest ever temperature of 52.9 degrees Celsius (127.22°F) on Wednesday, though it may be revised down as the weather department suspects sensors at the local weather station may have been faulty. At least one person died in the capital on Wednesday, a 40-year-old laborer suffered heat stroke. Ten other locations across the country recorded temperatures over 117 degrees on the same day, and at least two of them simmered over 122 degrees. A man sleeps on his rickshaw on a street in New Delhi, India, amid a deadly heat wave, May 31, 2024. ARUN SANKAR/AFP/Getty The scorching heat has resulted in deaths of more than 50 people across India, most dying of suspected heat stroke and other heat-related symptoms. At least 29 people died of suspected heat stroke in the eastern states of Bihar and Odisha on Thursday, where temperatures over 113 degrees were recorded. Ten of the 29 victims were general elections workers in Bihar, according to a report by news outlet India Today. India nearing the end of its massive, seven-phase general elections, virtually all of which have been conducted amid scorching heat. The last of the seven phases will see voters cast their ballots on Saturday. In the eastern state of Jharkhand, at least four people died due to heat-related symptoms on Thursday when the mercury rose to over 117 degrees. Villagers gather around a community tap water supply point to fetch drinking water on a hot day in a village on the outskirts of Ajmer, in India's western Rajasthan state, May 27, 2024. HIMANSHU SHARMA/AFP/Getty In the central Indian states of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, at least five people, including two children aged 12 and 14 years, died due to suspected heat stroke, and in the western state of Rajasthan, more than half of which is covered by the Thar desert, at least eight people, including two newborns, died of heat-related symptoms, according to Dr Ravi Prakash Mathur, the state's public health director. Making matters worse for the 32 million inhabitants of India's sweltering capital, the extreme heat has created a water crisis, with more being consumed and less available from parched rivers. With taps running dry in some areas, authorities have been forced to truck in water tankers to set up public distribution points. A boy drinks water from a tanker truck tap amid a scorching heat wave in New Delhi, India, May 30, 2024. Raj K Raj/Hindustan Times/Getty The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned that severe heat wave conditions will continue in eastern parts of the country for some time and it issued a "red alert" for the northern states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, urging people to avoid heat exposure. Last year, severe heat waves killed more than 100 people in India and neighboring Pakistan in April and May alone. The scorching temperatures also destroyed hundreds of thousands of acres of crops, affecting millions of people in India's vast agriculture sector. Scientists have linked the killer heat waves on the Asian subcontinent directly to the rapid rate of global warming. Last year, scientists said climate change was making heat waves 100 times more likely to occur . In: India Climate Change Global warming Asia Heat Wave More from CBS News Delhi temperature may break record for India's highest: 126.1 degrees Tiny fern breaks world record for largest genome on Earth 22 killed as bus carrying Hindu pilgrims plunges into a mountain gorge Holes quickly poked in Japanese town's Mount Fuji view-blocking mesh View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue Be the first to know Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting. Not Now Turn On

Weeks of sweltering heat scorch northern India | AP News Menu Menu World U.S. Election 2024 Politics Sports Entertainment Business Science Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Video Photography Climate Health Personal Finance AP Investigations Tech Lifestyle Religion AP Buyline Personal Finance AP Buyline Shopping Press Releases My Account ... World Israel-Hamas War Russia-Ukraine War Global elections Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East China Australia U.S. Election 2024 Election Results Delegate Tracker AP & Elections Global elections Politics Joe Biden Election 2024 Congress Sports MLB NBA NHL NFL Soccer Golf Tennis Auto Racing 2024 Paris Olympic Games Entertainment Movie reviews Book reviews Celebrity Television Music Business Inflation Personal finance Financial Markets Business Highlights Financial wellness Science Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Video Photography Climate Health Personal Finance AP Investigations Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Religion AP Buyline Personal Finance AP Buyline Shopping Press Releases My Account Search Query Submit Search Show Search Trump guilty verdict Israel-Hamas war South Africa Champions League final Shiloh Jolie-Pitt World News Weeks of sweltering heat scorch northern India Weeks of sweltering heat scorch northern India 1 of 20 | People cover their heads with scarves as protection against the harsh sun on a hot summer day in Jammu, India, Tuesday, May.28, 2024. (AP Photo/Channi Anand) Read More 2 of 20 | A Chinkara gazelle fawn rests in the plumage of a peacock at an animal rescue center on a hot summer day in Bikaner, Rajasthan, India, Thursday, May 23, 2024. (AP Photo/Dinesh Gupta) Read More 3 of 20 | Commuters cover their faces with scarves to protect themselves from the harsh heat in Bikaner, Rajasthan, India, Thursday, May 23, 2024. (AP Photo/Dinesh Gupta) Read More 4 of 20 | A man splashes water from a roadside tap on his face to cool off on a hot summer day in Lucknow, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Rajesh Kumar Singh) Read More 5 of 20 | A woman carries a fan purchased from a market on a hot summer day in Guwahati, India, Saturday, May 25, 2024. (AP Photo/Anupam Nath) Read More 6 of 20 | A man sleeps under a truck on a hot summer day in Guwahati, India, Saturday, May 25, 2024. (AP Photo/Anupam Nath) Read More 7 of 20 | A man drinks water on a hot summer day in Jammu, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Channi Anand) Read More 8 of 20 | Children cool themselves in a lake as the temperature rises in New Delhi, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) Read More 9 of 20 | A man walks past the India Gate monument on a hot summer day in New Delhi, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) Read More 10 of 20 | Private security officers guarding a residential colony sit in front of a desert cooler on a hot summer day in New Delhi, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) Read More 11 of 20 | A man wears an umbrella hat on a hot summer day in Bikaner, in the Indian western state of Rajasthan, Thursday, May 23, 2024. (AP Photo/Dinesh Gupta) Read More 12 of 20 | A gas cylinder delivery person wipes his sweat as takes a breather in the shade of a tree on a hot summer day in New Delhi, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) Read More 13 of 20 | A parking attendant covers his face with a scarf to protect himself from the harsh sun on a hot summer day in New Delhi, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) Read More 14 of 20 | A cobbler rests by her work equipment on a hot summer day in Lucknow, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Rajesh Kumar Singh) Read More 15 of 20 | A woman holds an umbrella and walks on a railway track with a child on a hot summer day in Guwahati, India, Saturday, May 25, 2024. (AP Photo/Anupam Nath) Read More 16 of 20 | Rickshaw pullers sleep in the shade of an overhead metro line on a hot summer day in Lucknow, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Rajesh Kumar Singh) Read More 17 of 20 | A Chinkara gazelle and peacocks rest in front of a desert cooler to beat the heat on a hot summer day in Bikaner, in the Indian western state of Rajasthan, Thursday, May 23, 2024. (AP Photo/Dinesh Gupta) Read More 18 of 20 | A man carries a water cooler for his home as temperatures rise in New Delhi, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) Read More 19 of 20 | A man bathes his cattle in the River Tawi on a hot summer day in Jammu, India, Tuesday, May 28, 2024. (AP Photo/Channi Anand) Read More 20 of 20 | Doctors hydrate a Chinkara gazelle at an animal rescue center with saline drip following an extreme heat wave gripping the city of Bikaner, western Rajasthan state, India, Wednesday, May 29, 2024. (AP Photo/Dinesh Gupta) Read More Share Share Copy Link copied Email Facebook X Reddit LinkedIn Pinterest Flipboard Print BIKANER, India (AP) — People in northern India have been struggling with an unrelenting, weekslong heat wave that has forced schools to close in some places and raised the risk of heatstrokes for laborers working outdoors. India’s weather department expects the high temperatures to persist across the region for the next few days and has put several states on high alert. Some parts of India’s capital reported up to 49.9 degrees Celsius (122 degrees Fahrenheit) on Tuesday, with the weather bureau saying the temperatures were 9 degrees higher than expected. The nearby states of Punjab and Haryana also saw temperatures soar, with one place in Rajasthan topping the 50 C (122 F) mark. India declares a heat wave whenever temperatures are above 45 C (113 F). A Chinkara gazelle fawn rests in the plumage of a peacock at an animal rescue center on a hot summer day in Bikaner, Rajasthan, India, Thursday, May 23, 2024. (AP Photo/Dinesh Gupta) A man wears an umbrella hat on a hot summer day in Bikaner, in the Indian western state of Rajasthan, Thursday, May 23, 2024. (AP Photo/Dinesh Gupta) A man carries a water cooler for his home as temperatures rise in New Delhi, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) The extreme heat in northern India has coincided with a 6-week general election , increasing health risks as people wait in long lines to cast their vote. The voting ends on Saturday. The sizzling temperatures are also taking a toll on animals, putting them at risk of dehydration and heatstroke. Sitaram, an animal conservationist in the city of Bikaner in Rajasthan who goes by one name, said that endangered chinkaras — also known as Indian gazelle — are facing a shortage for water. His rescue center has been looking after the sick and injured chinkaras and providing them shelter and water to beat the heat. READ MORE A scorching heat wave kills 14 in India ahead of a final round of election voting on Saturday ‘Heat dome’ leads to sweltering temperatures in Mexico, Central America and US South Hundreds of people suffer heatstroke in Pakistan, and dangerous heat is forecast to stay a while April, May and June are always hot in most parts of India before monsoon rains bring cooler temperatures. But extreme heat is fast becoming a public health crisis in India , with the warm weather getting more intense in the past decade and typically accompanied by severe water shortages. Tens of millions of India’s 1.4 billion people lack running water. A man splashes water from a roadside tap on his face to cool off on a hot summer day in Lucknow, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Rajesh Kumar Singh) Commuters cover their faces with scarves to protect themselves from the harsh heat in Bikaner, Rajasthan, India, Thursday, May 23, 2024. (AP Photo/Dinesh Gupta) A woman carries a fan purchased from a market on a hot summer day in Guwahati, India, Saturday, May 25, 2024. (AP Photo/Anupam Nath) A man sleeps under a truck on a hot summer day in Guwahati, India, Saturday, May 25, 2024. (AP Photo/Anupam Nath) A man drinks water on a hot summer day in Jammu, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Channi Anand) A man walks past the India Gate monument on a hot summer day in New Delhi, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) Children cool themselves in a lake as the temperature rises in New Delhi, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) A parking attendant covers his face with a scarf to protect himself from the harsh sun on a hot summer day in New Delhi, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) A gas cylinder delivery person wipes his sweat as takes a breather in the shade of a tree on a hot summer day in New Delhi, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) A cobbler rests by her work equipment on a hot summer day in Lucknow, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Rajesh Kumar Singh) A woman holds an umbrella and walks on a railway track with a child on a hot summer day in Guwahati, India, Saturday, May 25, 2024. (AP Photo/Anupam Nath) A man bathes his cattle in the River Tawi on a hot summer day in Jammu, India, Tuesday, May 28, 2024. (AP Photo/Channi Anand) Rickshaw pullers sleep in the shade of an overhead metro line on a hot summer day in Lucknow, India, Monday, May 27, 2024. (AP Photo/Rajesh Kumar Singh) Doctors hydrate a Chinkara gazelle at an animal rescue center with saline drip following an extreme heat wave gripping the city of Bikaner, western Rajasthan state, India, Wednesday, May 29, 2024. (AP Photo/Dinesh Gupta) ___ Follow AP visual journalism: AP Images blog: http://apimagesblog.com Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/apnews AP Images on X: http://twitter.com/AP_Images

Record high temperatures: How scorching heat is making India 'unlivable' | India News - Times of India Edition IN IN US Sign In TOI Today's ePaper News India News Record high temperatures: How scorching heat is making India 'unlivable' Trending Prajwal Revanna Arrest Delhi Temperature Today Lok Sabha Election PM Modi Meditate Arvind Kejriwal NEET UG Answer Key Election Schedule 2024 T20 World Cup 2024 Schedule Prajwal Revanna Arrest Delhi Temperature Today Lok Sabha Election PM Modi Meditate Arvind Kejriwal NEET UG Answer Key Election Schedule 2024 T20 World Cup 2024 Schedule Prajwal Revanna Arrest Delhi Temperature Today Lok Sabha Election PM Modi Meditate Arvind Kejriwal NEET UG Answer Key Election Schedule 2024 T20 World Cup 2024 Schedule Record high temperatures: How scorching heat is making India 'unlivable' TOI News Desk / TIMESOFINDIA.COM / Updated: May 31, 2024, 20:33 IST Share AA + Text Size Small Medium Large Follow us ​​With the heatwave season extending from March to June, many regions in India are experiencing record-high temperatures, putting immense pressure on infrastructure, health services, and the agricultural sector. This unrelenting heat is rendering parts of the country nearly unlivable. Writing an opinion piece on high temperatures and climate change in Bloomberg, David Fickling says that "India’s scorching heat is making it unlivable". NEW DELHI: India is currently grappling with unprecedented levels of heat, making daily life increasingly challenging for its citizens. The extreme temperatures are not only a warning sign of the effects of climate change but also a significant obstacle to the nation's economic aspirations. With the heatwave season extending from March to June, many regions in India are experiencing record-high temperatures, putting immense pressure on infrastructure, health services, and the agricultural sector. Top Picks For You 52.3 degree Celsius in Delhi: How to avoid heat stroke; IMD's dos and don'ts Delhi sees highest temperature ever recorded in India: Did it really hit 52.9°C? This unrelenting heat is rendering parts of the country nearly unlivable. Writing an opinion piece on high temperatures and climate change in Bloomberg, David Fickling says that "India’s scorching heat is making it unlivable". The severity of the situation was highlighted recently when New Delhi recorded temperatures as high as 52.9 degrees Celsius (127.2 degrees Fahrenheit). Though, the IMD is still verifying it. Now, Nagpur has recorded a whopping 56 degree Celsius. This is again being examined by the IMD. These, along with similar record-breaking temperatures in other parts of the country, underscores the urgent need for effective mitigation and adaptation strategies. The ongoing heatwaves are a stark reminder that climate change poses a severe threat to India's path to becoming a developed nation. Here is all you need to know about scorching heat and its impact on India: Why have temperatures reached record highs in India? Several factors have contributed to the record-high temperatures in India this season. According to scientists from the IMD, a normal rise in temperatures during May and June is usually controlled by periodic western disturbances. These weather systems bring moisture-laden winds from the Mediterranean Sea, which help neutralize the hot, dry air from Pakistan and Afghanistan. This year, however, there were more western disturbances than usual between March and early May, but their strength diminished over the last "10-15 days," leaving the hot air unchecked and causing temperatures to soar. How unusual has the heat been this year? The number of heatwave days recorded in northwestern and eastern India this season has more than doubled the normal rate. Eastern India experienced its hottest April on record, and Delhi recorded the highest ever temperature at 52.9 degrees Celsius, though this figure is under review for accuracy. Several regions have touched new highs, including 49.9 degrees Celsius recorded in parts of Delhi, and 47.5 degrees Celsius in Rohtak, Haryana. What impact is the heatwave having on daily life in India? The extreme heat is making basic survival tasks difficult. Delhi recorded its first heatstroke death recently, and there have been multiple heat-related deaths across various states. High temperatures have forced schools to close, hospitals to set up special units for treating heat-related illnesses, and workers on construction sites to take "paid holidays" in the afternoon. This disruption is particularly severe for the 93% of India's labor force in less organized jobs, where decent working conditions are not guaranteed. The unlivable conditions created by the heatwaves are a testament to the severe impact of climate change on daily life. How is the heatwave affecting India's agriculture ? India's agriculture, which heavily depends on the southwest monsoon rains, is severely affected by the heatwaves. Scorching temperatures from March to May damage crops and spoil produce due to the lack of refrigeration. For instance, a hot spell in 2022 reduced wheat output by about 4.5%. The subsequent monsoon rains, while breaking the heatwave, can cause flooding and hailstorms, further damaging crops. The price of vegetables has increased at double-digit rates in eight out of the past ten months, escalating living costs and forcing consumers to rely on cheaper, less healthy food. What are the broader economic implications of the heatwave? The extreme heat is hampering India's economic development, particularly in construction and agriculture. Upper middle-income nations typically derive about a third of their economic growth from building infrastructure, but India's construction work is significantly hindered by the heat. Cement, for instance, needs dry air to set properly, and the prolonged heatwaves reduce the effective building period. This impacts India's ability to develop the urban infrastructure needed by the end of the decade. How is India coping with the rising power demand due to the heatwave? The soaring temperatures have led to a record high in peak power demand, reaching 246.06 GW per day. This surge is driven by the increased use of air-conditioners and other cooling devices. The power ministry has projected that peak power demand could hit the 260 GW mark during this summer season. This unprecedented demand puts additional strain on India's power infrastructure, highlighting the need for more sustainable and efficient energy solutions. Symptoms and First Aid for various Heat Disorders: Heat Disorder Symptoms First Aid Heat Rash Skin redness and pain, possible swelling, blisters, fever, headaches. Take a shower using soap to remove oils that may block pores preventing the body from cooling naturally. If blisters occur, apply dry, sterile dressings and seek medical attention. Heat Cramps Painful spasms usually in leg and abdominal muscles or extremities. Heavy sweating. Move to cool or shaded place. Apply firm pressure on cramping muscles or gently massage to relieve spasm. Give sips of water. If nausea occurs, discontinue. Heat Exhaustion Heavy sweating, weakness, skin cold, pale, headache and clammy extremities. Weak pulse. Normal temperature possible. Fainting, vomiting. Get victim to lie down in a cool place. Loosen clothing. Apply cool, wet cloth. Fan or move victim to air-conditioned place. Give sips of water slowly and if nausea occurs, discontinue. If vomiting occurs, seek immediate medical attention, call 108 and 102 for ambulance. Heat Stroke (Sun Stroke) High body temperature. Hot, dry skin. Rapid, strong pulse. Possible unconsciousness or altered mental status. Victim will likely not sweat. Heat stroke is a severe medical emergency. Call 108 and 102 for ambulance for emergency medical services or take the victim to hospital immediately. Delay can be fatal. Move victim to a cooler environment. Try spraying water, cold water on body & fan the wet body. If possible sponging or wet cloth sponging to reduce body temperature. Use extreme caution. Remove clothing. Use fans and/or air conditioners. DO NOT GIVE FLUIDS ORALLY if the person is not conscious. What steps are being taken to mitigate the impact of the heatwaves? India is responsible for a small fraction of global carbon emissions but must take significant steps to combat climate change. Efforts to install solar power have recently started to pick up pace, though they lag behind countries like China. Additionally, the development of public charging stations for electric vehicles is progressing slowly, with current numbers far below the projected needs for 2030. Every side of politics in India is committed to making the nation affluent, but continuous scorching summers and severe monsoons weaken the bridge to this goal. (With inputs from agencies) About the Author TOI News Desk The TOI News Desk comprises a dedicated and tireless team of journalists who operate around the clock to deliver the most current and comprehensive news and updates to the readers of The Times of India worldwide. With an unwavering commitment to excellence in journalism, our team is at the forefront of gathering, verifying, and presenting breaking news, in-depth analysis, and insightful reports on a wide range of topics. The TOI News Desk is your trusted source for staying informed and connected to the ever-evolving global landscape, ensuring that our readers are equipped with the latest developments that matter most." Read More End of Article FOLLOW US ON SOCIAL MEDIA Visual Stories Previous 10 stunning space images captured by NASA's telescope home 12 animals with the most beautiful and expressive eyes Lifestyle ​10 laws to get ahead of 97% of people​ Lifestyle 10 reasons that make Rajaji Tiger Reserve a must-visit travel 7 oldest trees on Earth and where to spot them? travel 8 tips for children to sound smarter in conversations Lifestyle 8 books to read to become an expert in corporate ‘know-hows’ Lifestyle 10 tips to raise a smart kid Lifestyle Improve Your Concentration Skills with These 10 Effective Tips education ​10 animals that can live without food and water for months​ Lifestyle Next 1 2 3 Hot Picks Arunachal Pradesh Exit Poll Sikkim Exit Poll Andhra Pradesh Exit Poll Odisha Exit Poll Lok Sabha 2204 Exit Polls Assembly Elections Exit Polls Lok Sabha Exit Poll Date TOP TRENDING R Praggnanandhaa JEE Advanced 2024 Delhi Heatwave Delhi Water Crisis Arvind Kejriwal 911 S5 Botnet Meghalaya Police Recruitment India World Cup Players List T20 World Cup 2024 Team List T20 World Cup Points Table Trending Stories In India Entire Website Best Laptop Brands In India: Top Choices For Every Budget & Need 10 remarkable survival skills: How evolution creates survival champions Delhi govt goes to SC, seeks more water from neighbouring states How Trump's conviction will impact the US presidential election Revanna held: How drama unfolded at Bengaluru airport Massive fire reports in Gurgaon plant incorrect: Maruti Suzuki Brutal! Mark Wood's mean, unplayable bouncer. Watch Astro-Numerology June: Sanjay B Jumaani's predictions for each no.(1-9) Passengers faint as Air India flight delayed by 20 hours India's beloved Hero Splendor now in a new version Pune Porsche crash: How the system 'tried to protect' the teen accused Lok Sabha: Last phase of voting on June 1 for 57 seats; PM Modi, Kangana Ranaut in fray A broken judiciary is hurting the economy. Here's how to fix it Monsoon loses steam, may progress slowly BJP targets Congress for opting out of LS exit poll debates 4 Rajkot civic body officials held over blaze at gaming zone Which narrative will Sandeshkhali believe – BJP’s or Mamata’s? Don't use AC 24x7 and follow this important tip, says fire official PM Modi, Amit Shah review cyclone damage, promise all aid Israeli firm tried to disrupt Lok Sabha polls: OpenAI report About us Create Your Own Ad Terms of Use and Grievance Redressal Policy Privacy policy Advertise with us RSS Newsletter Feedback ePaper Sitemap Archives FOLLOW US ON Other Times Group News Sites The Economic Times Hindi Economic Times Navbharat Times Maharashtra Times Vijaya Karnataka Telugu Samayam Tamil Samayam Malayalam Samayam I am Gujarat Times Now Times Now Navbharat TimesPoints Indiatimes Brand Capital Education Times Times Food Miss Kyra Mumbai Mirror Popular Categories Headlines Sports News Business News India News World News Bollywood News Health & Fitness Tips Indian TV Shows Celebrity Photos Hot on the Web Japanese Man Dog Madhu Chopra Gurucharan Singh Nasa Summer Drinks Horoscope Today Anant Ambani Shoaib Ibrahim Optical illusion Farah Khan Top Trends JEE Advanced Response Sheets Prajwal Revanna India Q4 GDP Lok Sabha Election 2024 Pune Porsche Crash Lok Sabha Exit Poll Prajwal Revanna Azam Khan Donald Trump Lok Sabha Constituencies Lok Sabha Election Results 2024 T20 World Cup Team Squad How to Watch T20 World Cup in USA India World Cup Squad T20 World Cup 2024 Points Table India Team T20 World Cup Match Schedule Trending Topics Anant Ambani Pre Wedding Bigg Boss OTT 3 Promo Mr and Mrs Mahi Movie Review Garudan Movie Review Personality Test Panchayat 3 Twitter Review Shashi Kapoor Ambani Family Healthy Habits Mr. & Mrs. Mahi Review Sanjay Dutt House Anant Ambani Atlas Review Largest Empires In Human Aly Goni Karisma Kapoor Best Cricket Helmets Best Webcams for Laptop Best Electric Wheelchairs Best Tops For Women Living and entertainment Viral News Viral Videos Femina ETimes Grazia Zoom Travel Destinations Bombay Times Cricbuzz.com Filmfare TV Lifestyle Longwalks App Newspaper Subscription Food News Times Prime Whats Hot Services CouponDunia TechGig TimesJobs Bollywood News Times Mobile Gadgets Now Careers Colombia Latest News Heatwave: 14 people, including 10 polling personnel died in Bihar Net Saree for Women: Best Options To Look Your Best In This Ethnic Attire Aquarius, Horoscope Today, June 1, 2024: Embrace unexpected events for personal growth Parineeti Chopra shares a glimpse of her 'last few mango date' with husband Raghav Chadha Agra woman seeks divorce from husband as he forgets to bring Kurkure With 8 more deaths, flood toll in northeast mounts to 53 2 kids among 10 killed as storm, rains wreak havoc in UP Here's what Tata Group chairman N Chandrasekaran told shareholders on TCS' Gen-AI projects at the company's 29th AGM Aditi Ashok makes her Majors debut with a solid start at US Women's Open TOI Financial Planning for Beginners - Revised Varanasi Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Total seats, schedule, candidates list, voting, result, main parties Bigg Boss Malayalam 6: Sreethu surprises in the tongue twister task Sagittarius, Horoscope Today, June 1, 2024: Ideal day for exploring new horizons through travel Easy fixes for astrology problems: Planet tricks Kolkata Uttar Constituency of West Bengal Lok Sabha Election 2024: Date of Voting, Result, Candidates List, Main Parties, Schedule High Heel Sports Shoes For Men For Better Performance On The Field Sunny Deol refuses to comment on cheating allegations, his lawyer to address claims in press conference tomorrow - Exclusive Treesa-Gayatri enter semifinals of Singapore Open after another upset win Copyright © 2024 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service

