The European Union's upcoming 14th sanctions package against Russia must do more to choke off energy exports and clamp down on circumvention by third parties, an advisor to the office of Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told CNBC.

Vladyslav Vlasiuk said it was also vital to tighten export controls on critical technologies used within Moscow's military equipment. However, he noted that EU states would need to work more cohesively for sanctions to stand a chance of crossing the line by the end of next month as planned.

"The most critical aspect of the 14th sanctions package is its adoption by the end of June, but some member states currently pose a challenge to this," Vlasiuk said via email Thursday.

The EU's special envoy for the implementation of sanctions, David O'Sullivan, was in Kyiv Thursday to discuss the latest sanctions package amid ongoing pushback from member states such as Hungary. Among the proposed measures is a ban on Russian liquified natural gas (LNG) exports and a crackdown on sanctions circumvention via countries including Kremlin ally Belarus.

Nataliia Shapoval, a member of the Yermak-McFaul International Working Group on Russian Sanctions, a think tank which advises on EU sanctions, said the LNG proposals were an attempt to restrict both Russia's current and future energy revenues.

"LNG is the leverage that Russia still maintains," Shapoval said over the phone.

Russia said Wednesday that such a ban would hurt the EU more than it would Russia, and that some LNG supplies were already being redirected to China and India. Shapoval noted, however, that gas supplies were much more difficult to direct without European infrastructure than, for example, oil.

She added that the EU was currently playing a "cat and mouse game" to determine which critical components were propping up Moscow's military might and should therefore be banned.

— Karen Gilchrist

A top Russian official has said it could go to war with NATO if Ukraine strikes inside Russia with US weapons.

On Thursday, President Joe Biden partially lifted restrictions on how Ukraine can use military supplies sent by the US.

In response, senior Russian security official Dmitry Medvedev issued a series of warnings to the West.

"Russia regards all long-range weapons used by Ukraine as already being directly controlled by servicemen from NATO countries. This is no military assistance, this is participation in a war against us," Medvedev said.

"And such actions could well become a casus belli [an act that provokes a war]."

He said it would be a "fatal mistake" on the part of the West to think that Russia was not ready to use tactical nuclear weapons against Ukraine - and spoke of the potential to strike unnamed hostile countries with strategic nuclear weapons.

Image: Dmitry Medvedev has threatened the possibility of nuclear escalation of the conflict with Ukraine. Pic: AP

"This is, alas, neither intimidation nor bluffing," said Mr Medvedev.

He said Moscow's conflict with the West was developing according to the worst case scenario and that "nobody today can rule out the conflict's transition to its final stage".

Read more: Ukraine-Russia war latest updates

Advertisement

The partially-lifted restrictions from the US mean Ukraine can use American weapons to strike inside of Russia but only in defence of Kharkiv.

Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player 0:40 President Biden has recently permitted Ukraine’s armed forces to use US-supplied weapons on targets inside Russia that are near the Kharkiv region.

However, US officials stressed that Ukraine still cannot use American long-range missiles and other munitions to strike inside Russia offensively.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and others have been increasingly vocal that US restrictions meant Ukrainian forces could not defend themselves as Russia intensified attacks around the north-east Kharkiv region.

US weapons may not win the war but they could help stabilise Ukraine Alex Rossi International correspondent @alexrossiSKY The frontlines on Ukraine’s north eastern border around Kharkiv are looking increasingly shaky. The second city is now in striking distance of Russian artillery. Washington’s change in policy is limited in scope but it means the defenders will now be able fire US munitions into Russia in this area only, to try and stop Russian forces advancing. Again, the emphasis is being placed on defensive action rather than offensive operations - but that is a matter of interpretation and will look very different in Kyiv, Washington and, of course, Moscow. Using American weapons for attacks inside Russia has always been a red line for the Americans. Since the conflict started, the Kremlin has continuously played up with bellicose rhetoric that such moves could lead to a direct conflict with America - and the spectre of a nuclear war. But the precarious situation in North East Ukraine and the subsequent appeals from the Zelensky administration appear to have changed the calculation of policy makers in Washington. It marks a sharp departure from where the Americans were at the beginning of the war. Then the supply of weapons was only meant to be defensive in nature and to be used inside Ukrainian territory. Now you have a situation where American guns and rocket launchers can be used to target positions inside a nuclear-armed country and enemy. Russia’s response has been predictable - it’s warning that the move is a serious escalation and will have serious consequences. The move, though, is unlikely to change the course of the war. For many months Ukraine has been striking deeper inside Russian territory and it has not changed Russia’s will to fight. But it’s hoped the power of American weapons will help Ukraine stabilise an area that has been under constant attack for the last three weeks and looks increasingly weak. But it also increases the possibly of a direct confrontation with Russia in the future.

A Putin-backed thinktank also suggested on Thursday that Russia should consider a "demonstrative" nuclear blast to scare Ukraine from using Western weapons inside its territory.

Read more from Sky News:

Ukraine launches major attack against Russian base in Crimea

Crowded DIY shop hit by Russian airstrikes, killing at least 14

Mr Medvedev, the senior Russian official responsible for Friday's threats, frequently makes dire threats to both Ukraine and the West, often invoking Russia's nuclear weapons.

Some commentators even say his wild statements could be designed to ensure he is not viewed as statesmanlike and therefore not considered a threat to Mr Putin's authority.

Follow Sky News on WhatsApp Keep up with all the latest news from the UK and around the world by following Sky News Tap here

Be the first to get Breaking News Install the Sky News app for free

Although many do not attach huge significance to his threats, they could give a flavour of what the Kremlin is thinking, according to diplomats.

Growing up under fire: Ukraine’s children adapt to survive Russia's invasion

Two years of war takes its toll on Ukraine's younger generations, both physically and emotionally.

CNN —

Russia has opened up a new front in its invasion of Ukraine, launching a surprise offensive in the northeastern region of Kharkiv after focusing much of their forces this year on the east.

The assault, which began earlier this month, saw thousands of Russian soldiers punch through the northern border, and forced Ukraine to move in troops from other areas to defend positions.

It serves as an example of how Russia has been exploiting Ukraine’s main vulnerabilities: insufficient manpower, artillery shortages, sparse air defenses and inadequate defensive fortifications.

Ukraine’s frontline brigades are clinging on as they desperately await munitions from allies and fresh recruits to provide some much-needed manpower.

CNN has laid out the three key frontiers where fighting is now raging, tracking the marginal gains Russia has made along a frontline which had previously been frozen for months.

In the north, Moscow’s troops are aiming to bring its troops within tube artillery range of Kharkiv city. Along the southern front, the battle is on to recapture villages liberated during Ukraine’s counteroffensive last year and push further into Ukrainian territory.

Ukraine, meanwhile, is racing to fix its current weak spots after finding itself on the back foot as it pledges to fight “house by house, street by street.”

The Kharkiv front

The cross-border assault saw the Russians quickly take control of several villages.

Since then, Russia has ramped up its attacks in the area as it tries to take control of the key settlements of Vovchansk and Lypsti.

Lyptsi, which lies around 30 kilometers north of Kharkiv, is under heavy Russian bombardment. Capturing the large village would allow Russian troops to position artillery within range of Kharkiv city, Ukraine’s second largest, which is already vulnerable to missile attacks, as this weekend’s strike on a hardware store showed.

The attack also allows Russia to divert already thinly stretched Ukrainian resources away from other front lines, and to create a buffer zone from Ukrainian attacks on Russian border regions. The nearby Russian city of Belgorod, for instance, has increasingly come under Ukrainian attack in recent months.

The east - Avdiivka and Bakhmut

Before the Kharkiv offensive, Russia had been largely focusing its offensive capabilities in the east, where it had been inching forward since October 2023 as Ukraine’s highly-anticipated counteroffensive floundered last summer. Capturing Ukraine’s eastern industrial heartland – known as the Donbas - remains a major Kremlin goal.

In February, Moscow’s troops notched up a major success along this front when they took the town of Avdiivka. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said that the decision to pull back was made to “save our soldiers’ lives” and came in the face of constant, heavy Russian bombardment and a ten-to-one shell disadvantage.

Since then, Russian troops have made steady progress westwards in the direction of Pokrovsk, which serves as a vital military hub in Ukraine’s war effort.

A few dozen kilometers to the north, eastern city of Bakhmut was recaptured by the Russians in spring last year following a grinding, nine-month battle. Now, Russia’s forces are edging west towards Chasiv Yar. Getting control of high ground on which the town sits would put Putin’s troops closer to the strategic city of Kramatorsk.

The battle for Robotyne

Further to the south, Ukrainian forces are coming under pressure southeast of Zaporizhzhia, one of the few areas where they achieved success, albeit modest in size, in last summer’s counteroffensive.

Both Russian military bloggers and Ukraine’s DeepStateMap report small Russian advances into a pocket of recaptured Ukrainian territory.

Robotyne, a tiny village that is now completely destroyed, has changed hands several times during the war. It was first captured by Russian forces in early March 2022 and Moscow again claimed control over it earlier this month, something denied by Ukraine.

The battle for Robotyne highlights the fluidity of the battlefield and is a stark illustration of the nature of the fighting, with the war being decided in brutal battles for often abandoned villages.