Introduction

The field of Generative AI (GenAI) is rapidly evolving, transforming how we approach creative endeavors, tackle complex tasks, and interact with technology. In 2024, GenAI tools have become more accessible and sophisticated, offering a vast array of capabilities for individuals and businesses alike. This comprehensive guide explores the best GenAI tools across various categories, empowering you to leverage the power of artificial intelligence for your specific needs.

This research from Executive Networks and University of Phoenix in late 2023 explored how HR and talent leaders are using GenAI at work, along with their perceptions about the future of the learning and development (L&D) function in this age of GenAI. Knowledge workers were also surveyed in order to better understand their experiences and perspectives around GenAI and the impact these new tools are having on their job and their organization. The report presents key findings that: HR and Talent leaders are optimistic about GenAI and moving fast to use it across the HR function – especially in learning; only a third of knowledge workers are confident about using GenAI. Women trail men in use and confidence; and while HR leaders and knowledge workers see many ways GenAI can enhance their work, real barriers could slow progress. The study uncovered learning gaps that need to be closed and barriers that could slow adoption if not addressed. To help close those gaps, the study includes recommendations of five important actions talent leaders should take now to maximize the positive impact of GenAI for their organizations.

Foundational models like large language models (LLMs) have recently commanded widespread public attention—and caution—given their transformational potential for both our economy and society. Naturally, questions loom about how these AI innovations will impact the global development research and policy landscape. If used properly by the right actors, these tools might unlock enormous troves of data and create new opportunities to improve lives around the world.

The World Bank's Development Impact (DIME) department and Development Data Group (DECDG), the Center for Effective Global Action (CEGA), and the development community at the University of Chicago are excited to explore this topic at our tenth annual Measuring Development (MeasureDev) Conference, “AI, The Next Generation.”

MeasureDev 2024 will feature presentations on AI that span the measurement ecosystem: from efforts to improve and expand responsible data infrastructure in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) and facilitate the development of a new generation of AI tools, to analysis tailoring foundational models to optimize generative AI (GenAI) including LLMs for social impact. The event will feature speakers who are shaping the way these new tools will be adopted and regulated.

Featured Speakers