Tesla makes some of the most popular electric cars in the world right now, but what’s going on with the brand and what can you expect to see over the coming years? Read on to find out…

Going back 10 years, Tesla was a little-known maker of an exotic electric luxury saloon called the Model S, but fast forward to today and it’s become one of the most popular EV brands in the world.

The Model 3 and Model Y offer mass appeal thanks to their relatively low price tags and class-leading tech, while the Model S and Model X offer blistering performance and impressive levels of luxury.

The brand is showing no signs of slowing down either, with a couple of significant new models coming over the next couple of years.

New Tesla Model 3 Performance revealed

Hot on the heels of the updated Tesla Model 3, the new Performance version has made its debut. It gets dual electric motors with 460hp, three more horses than the outgoing car, and 0-60mph is dealt with in 2.9 seconds.

New Tesla Model 3 Performance front

That makes it almost as quick as a Porsche 911 Turbo, and that car costs almost double the £59,990 asking price of this Tesla.

Visual changes are pretty substantial for a Tesla as well, with more aggressive-looking bumpers and unique alloy wheels setting this car apart. New bucket seats are also available inside.

New Tesla Model Y Juniper could be coming this year

A facelift for the Tesla Model Y could be coming this year, following on from the updated Model 3 last year. Codenamed ‘Juniper‘, this updated electric SUV is likely to get a lot of that car’s styling cues, including the slim headlights and revised tail lights.

New Tesla Model Y Juniper exclusive render

Changes to the interior are likely to be similar to the new Model 3 as well, the two cars are basically the same under the skin after all. This means you can expect a new dashboard layout with no steering column stalks, improved materials and updated infotainment technology.

The Tesla Model 3 retained all of its battery options when it was updated, so don’t expect to see any major changes under the skin of the new Model Y either.

New entry-level Tesla Hatchback coming next year

Tesla is finally set to reveal its new compact EV next year to provide an alternative to sub-£25,000 EVs like the MG 4, BYD Dolphin and Renault 5 E-Tech. This comes despite rumours that the brand would scrap this hatchback in favour of developing self-driving robotaxis, something Elon Musk has firmly denied online.

Tesla compact EV front

Details are thin on the ground for this car, with not even a name being confirmed yet, but it’ll feature a whole raft of new technology to keep costs down, and it’s going to be built using more efficient manufacturing techniques to help drive the price down even further.

So how much will the new Tesla hatchback cost? Well it’s a little tricky to put an exact figure on it at this point. Elon Musk claims it’ll cost less than $25,000, which is around £22,000, and it will be approximately 50% cheaper to build than the Model 3 and Model Y.

New Tesla Robotaxi coming 8 August

The Tesla Robotaxi may not be replacing the forthcoming compact EV, but it is still in the works. A reveal of this fully self-driving electric car is happening on 8 August this year, after almost eight years in the making.

In a 2016 blog post called ‘The Masterplan Part Deux’, Musk promised that one day you’d be able to summon your Tesla from anywhere using your phone, and that you’d be able to share your car with other app users to generate income when you weren’t using it.

It’s highly likely that this new Robotaxi will use the same collection of parts as the compact EV, helping to keep costs down and make the car more affordable.

What happened to the Tesla Roadster?

Cast your mind back seven years. Ed Sheeran had just released Shape of You, the Alpine A110 had just been revealed, and Elon Musk promised to build a new supercar which would go from 0-60mph in under 1.9 seconds.

New Tesla Roadster front

Well seven years on and the new Tesla Roadster still hasn’t come to fruition. The Honda Civic has gone through two generations in that time, but Musk recently took to X (formerly known as Twitter) promising to launch the car in 2025.

He’s also touting some insane new performance figures. In the post on X, Musk claims the new Roadster will be able to do 0-60mph in less than 1.0 second thanks to, wait for it, rockets. This should probably be taken with more than a pinch of salt though, because even if a car like this was to become reality there’s a good chance it would be cancelled before it ever makes production.

Is the Tesla Cybertruck coming to the UK?

It’s best not to be too sceptical about the new Tesla Roadster though, because Tesla has finally managed to bring the Cybertruck into production. This is one insane-looking electric pickup truck, with a design resembling a rolling axe head, but will it come to the UK?

Check out Mat’s review of the Tesla Cybertruck…

Well it’s not looking hopeful. While you can gawk at the Cybertruck’s specs on the Tesla UK website, the option to put down a deposit was taken away a fair few months ago. It’s the same story in Europe, and there’s no sign of this changing any time soon.

Those living in the USA can get a Cybertruck for £66,000, rising to £82,000 for the tri-motor Cyberbeast model . A cheaper rear-wheel drive model will also be coming in 2025 costing £50,000.

Looking for an easy way to change your car? Then Carwow is the place to go. You can sell your old car for a great price, and get the best deals on a new one. All through our network of trusted dealers and all from the comfort of your home. Tap the button below to get started today.

The design of this car is amazing. Auto pilot is great on the highway though it requires that you jiggle the steering wheel (yoke) to know you are there which is kind of annoying as my hand is on the wheel just not torquing it enough. The build quality however is miserable. Panel gaps are all over the place, they actually have a tool to know if things are bad enough to fix so they … rehung my door but left the rest all a little crooked, unacceptable for the price. This of course leads to a loud whistling sound at higher speeds. They heard the sound when I took the service personnel for a drive but decided they can't find the cause so it isn't a problem. Service is so bad I told my father to cancel his order. Update: whistling was a missing roof seal, finally found it after 3-4 visits, has to replace roof twice but now roof rattles and squeaks and they just gave up on fixing it and said it isn't a warranty issue of a brand new car. Also had 2 parking sensors fail. 14 service visits and out of service 5 weeks in the first 3 months of ownership. Update: I was very excited when I finally got mine. Honestly the technology is quite impressive. The build quality, however, was so abysmal and the service even worse. When it was delivered it had a whistling sound at speed. For a while they refused to test it and fix it as they say that is above the speed limit where they are though not where I commute. Eventually they did find the problem and it was because the glass roof was installed incorrectly. They replaced that and the windshield but introduced a horrible rattling. After having it for a month they returned it to me still rattling and said that isn't covered by warranty. So my $100,000 luxury car rattles as I drive to work. As a side issue, the range isn't nearly what they say it is, more like 300 miles on a long range with 19-in wheels. That is however still enough for me. It does use about 10% of the battery with sentry mode turned on while parked at work. I am one of the idiots who did pay for full self-drive. The only value I get out of that currently is that it will change lanes for me on the highway. It is like very good cruise control but nothing like what was promised. Overall, some of the best engineering but worst build quality I have ever seen.

Read more