Irregularities in Indian medical course admission exams

The National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) Controversy was caused by multiple discrepancies that occurred in the conduction of the NEET-UG 2024 examination.[1] The examination is one of India's biggest entrance examinations in terms of applicant numbers and is the sole nationwide examination conducted for admission in all Indian government and private Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) undergraduate programs.

The declaration of results sparked nationwide concern due to various discrepancies, multiple top scorers being awarded 'impossible' scores and an unprecedented rise in the number of candidates scoring full marks. The pre-medical test received allegations citing use of unfair means and a suspected paper leak, with many candidates asking for re-examination.[2]

Background [ edit ]

In 2024, there were around around 2.4 million candidates who sat the examination on May 5, 2024 across various states in India.[3] There had been a general trend of increased applicant numbers.[4]

Paper Leak Incident [ edit ]

A paper scam in Gujarat, featured Vadodara based international education consultant owners and educators, and at least 16 students who each paid Rs 10 lakh to pass the exam.

[[Category:Wikipedia pages tagged for copyright problems|]] The prosecution informed a Godhra court that at least 16 students from Odisha, Jharkhand, and Karnataka had agreed to pay Rs 10 lakh apiece to clear the NEET.[needs copy edit] The pupils' identities were discovered on the list retrieved from primary accused Tushar Bhatt. On the allegations in the FIR, the accused instructed them to submit blank papers with answers to be filled after the exam.[5]

Fresh accusations arose when news reports of a paper leak group emerged only days after conduction of the competitive exam.[6] Buyers reportedly charged prices ranging from 20 to 25 lakhs Indian Rupees, (around 2-2.5 million USD) for the examination papers at Bhartiya Vidya Bhavan Mehta Vidyalaya.[6] Also, at one centre in Rajasthan, named Girls Higher Secondary Adarsh Vidya Mandir, Mantown, Sawai Madhopur, the Hindi medium students claimed that they were handed English medium question papers, instead of Hindi ones.[7]

Result Scrutiny [ edit ]

The suspicions regarding a paper leak only increased with the NEET results declared 10 days prior to its' initial release date published on the NTA's information bulletin, which coincided with the date of the Indian Lok Sabha Election Results.[8] The NEET-UG scores were also released by the NTA only hours after the release of its official Answer Key.[9]

In a merit list released by the NTA, 67 candidates had obtained the same top mark, with the previous highest total being 3 candidates in 2021.[10][11] Despite concerns being raised, no explanation has been given for this. Eight of the candidates who obtained a perfect score came from a single exam center located in Jhajjar, Haryana.[12] A number of candidates also received marks that were theoretically impossible under the answer grid due to receiving grace marks. [13]

One case of this happened due to an error in older versions of the NCERT (National Council of Education Training and Research) textbooks. Following 10,000 candidates challenging the answer sheet, the NTA decided to award grace marks to those following the textbook. 44 of the top candidates were assisted by this decision. [10]

Public reactions [ edit ]

Following the announcement of the exam results, hashtags protesting the results began trending on social media channels and media platform X, as well as students calling for an investigation into the examination process and urging re-examination.[14]

Several public educators and educational technology companies raised media debates and questioned the authenticity of the exam.[15] Indian political party leaders alleged rigging and corruption and demanded probes into the exam process, one involving Congress Party Leader Priyanka Gandhi questioning the government for ignoring student complaints.[16][17]

Madhya Pradesh Congress Media Department President Mukesh Nayak alleged in a press conference that the National Testing Agency (NTA) has committed a bigger scam than Vyapam and made demands for a CBI probe.[18]

NTA's response [ edit ]

The NTA investigated allegations of a paper leak prior to the exam, and issued a public notice citing them to be "completely baseless and without any ground"[19]

The NTA issued an official clarification notice dated 6 June 2024, refuting suspicions of a paper leak and justified the early results declaration, claiming it was not timed to coincide with the Lok Sabha elections[20]

The NTA's veiled responses and opaque proceedings only resulted in further anger and questioning from students and media outlets, hailing the entire procedure a scam. [21]

Legal proceedings and investigation [ edit ]

Multiple applications have been filed with the Supreme Court of India asking a re-examination in light of the allegations.[22]. The Supreme Court denied the petition to suspend the publishing of NEET UG test results.[23]

A seperate petition was filed at the Delhi High Court, which challenged the changes to the answers key.[24]

Additionally, a public interest litigation questioning the reason behind the odd marks of 718/720 and 719/720, has been raised at the Calcutta High Court.[13] With reference to a paper leak case in Bihar, a PIL filed demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) investigation into the matter.[25]

On June 8, 2024, at a press conference, the NTA declared the decision from the Education Ministry to set up a four-member panel to reanalyze the supposedly awarded grace marks to 1563 candidates.[26]

New Delhi, June 10 (IANS) A PIL has been filed before the Supreme Court seeking cancellation of the NEET-UG 2024 examination.

The plea seeks directions for the constitution of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate the “malpractices and fraud involved” in the NEET examination held on May 5 and a stay on counselling till the investigations on the paper leak are completed.

The PIL filed by two members of an organisation working for the assistance and benefit of the students said that the news of the NEET exam paper leak has shaken to the core as many of the meritorious students lost the opportunity to become future medical practitioners.

“The petitioners are filing the present petition with the sole purpose of providing justice to the aggrieved students who with the support of their respective family members had put in their entire time, hard-earned money and energy along with the hard work and dedication in preparing for NEET Exam 2024 and have been denied a level playing field,” it said.

The plea added that some students have secured 718 and 719 marks which are statically not possible and the entire exercise conduct of the exam is without any rationale and the same is arbitrary and done with mala fide intention to grant entry to the students through backdoor.

Further, it said that 67 students scored 720 out of 720 marks out of which eight students were from the same examination centre, raising serious doubts regarding the examination conducted by the NTA.

Recently, the apex court denied a stay on the declaration of the result of the NEET-UG examination but issued a notice to NTA and others in a similar matter.

–IANS

pds/dpb

Spread the love

Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT Madras) will soon release the answer key and result of JEE Advanced 2024 exam. Held in two sessions on May 26, the much-awaited result is expected to be declared on June 9, 2024, at 10 am.

Result declaration: June 9, 2024 (10 AM)

June 9, 2024 (10 AM) JoSAA counselling (tentative): June 10, 2024 onwards

(tentative): June 10, 2024 onwards AAT registration: June 9-10, 2024

June 9-10, 2024 AAT exam: June 12, 2024

June 12, 2024 AAT result: June 14, 2024

Checking Your JEE Advanced 2024 Result

Candidates can access their scores on the official JEE Advanced website (jeeadv.ac.in) by following these steps:

Visit the website.

Click on the designated link for JEE Advanced 2024 Results.

Enter your login credentials (roll number, date of birth).

Submit and view your results.

Download and print a copy for your records.

The JEE Advanced 2024 result will include crucial details like:

Subject-wise scores

Total score

Rank

These scores determine your eligibility for admission into prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and other premier engineering institutions.

JEE Advanced 2024: Date & Time Event

May 31 (5 pm) Candidate responses available on JEE Advanced website

Candidate responses available on JEE Advanced website June 02 (10 am) Online display of provisional answer keys

Online display of provisional answer keys June 2-3 (5 pm) Period for feedback and comments on provisional answer keys

Period for feedback and comments on provisional answer keys June 9 (10 am) Online declaration of final answer key and results of JEE Advanced 2024

Online declaration of final answer key and results of JEE Advanced 2024 June 9-10 (5 pm) Online registration for the Architecture Aptitude Test (AAT) 2024

Online registration for the Architecture Aptitude Test (AAT) 2024 June 10 (5 pm) Tentative start of the Joint Seat Allocation (JoSAA) 2024 process

Tentative start of the Joint Seat Allocation (JoSAA) 2024 process June 12 (9 am -12 noon) Architecture Aptitude Test (AAT) 2024

Architecture Aptitude Test (AAT) 2024 June 14 (5 pm) Declaration of results for AAT 2024

After the release of the results, candidates interested in architecture can register for the Architecture Aptitude Test (AAT) 2024 (June 9-10). The AAT exam will be conducted on June 12, with results declared on June 14.

Simultaneously, the Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) counseling process will begin, which will guide candidates through admission based on their JEE Advanced rank. Stay tuned to the official website for updates and make sure you complete all the necessary steps immediately to secure your desired seat.

Also Read – Best IIT Summer Internships 2024

"Weakness is what you think you are. Strength is what you do." - Karen Kingsbury. This powerful quote makes the point: Our perception of ourselves shapes our reality, especially regarding emotions. We've all been there–staring…