Pune: The Pune police, probing the Porsche car crash case, on Monday said the blood sample of the teenage driver was thrown away in the dustbin and replaced with that of another person, which had no trace of alcohol and Sassoon. Two doctors and an employee of the General Hospital were arrested.



The arrested persons have been identified as Dr. Ajay Taware, head of the forensic medicine department of the state-RU hospital, Dr. Srihari Halnor, chief medical officer, and Atul Ghatkamble, an employee working under Dr. Taware. He was sent to police custody till May 30.



"The teen's father had called the doctor and tempted him to change his blood samples," Pune Police Commissioner Amitesh Kumar said at a press conference here on Monday. Since the teen's blood samples were changed, he said, on Sunday, There was no trace of alcohol in the report received from the hospital.Two IT professionals were killed when a speeding Porsche car, allegedly driven by a minor boy, hit their motorcycle in Pune city's Kalyani Nagar area on the morning of May 19. Police claim that the teenager was drunk at the time of the accident.



In a separate development, a court allowed police to take Visha Agarwal, the realtor father of the 17-year-old girl involved in a car accident, into custody from the Yerwada Central Jail in a case of kidnapping and wrongful confinement of her driver. A team of Porsche representatives reached Yerwada police station on Monday to conduct a technical inspection of the luxury car involved in the accident, an official said.



Amites Kumar said, “Dr. Ajay Taware and Dr. Srihari Halnor have been arrested.“The investigation revealed that the teen's blood samples were replaced with samples from another person and this was done on the instructions of Dr. Tavare."



On the instructions of Dr. Tavare, the teen's blood samples were thrown into the dustbin and replaced with blood samples from another person, he said. Kumar said, "Investigation also revealed that the teen's father It was he who had called Dr. Ajay Taware and tempted him to change his blood samples."



Another police officer of the crime branch said that the teenager's father called Dr. Tavre several times.



Kumar said the case of manipulation of blood sample came to light when another sample of the teenager taken for DNA sample was sent to another hospital."The report from the second hospital revealed that the teenager's blood report was manipulated at Sassoon Hospital as the DNA (blood samples) of both the reports did not match," he said.



He said investigation was underway to find out whose blood samples were collected in place of the teenager's and CCTV footage of Sassoon Hospital was also recovered.



"We are investigating whose samples were taken to replace the teen's samples. We are investigating whether anyone's samples were taken or it was taken from the stock in the government hospital laboratory. We are looking at the CCTV footage, This aspect is being investigated through inquiry., and technical analysis,” Kumar said. The police commissioner said the juvenile has been booked in the case under sections 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and other related Sections have been added.



"We have made the teenager's father a co-accused in the present case," he said.



The court allowed police to take custody of Visha Aggarwal from Yerwada Central Jail in the case of kidnapping and wrongful confinement of her driver, a police officer said. The juvenile involved in the accident was initially granted bail by the Juvenile Justice Board. who had also asked him to write an essay on road accidents, but after an outcry and a review application by the police, he was sent to an observation home till 5 June.The police commissioner said the report of the teenager's second sample taken at Aundh hospital 20 hours after the accident also did not contain traces of alcohol as it was taken for the purpose of DNA sampling.



"We have already clarified that our case is not based on the pillar of blue sample, but on Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder). The juvenile (in the car accident) was in full consciousness and knew that drunk driving It could be a threat to the lives of others on the road,” he said. Kumar said there was scope for doubt after the teen's first report based on physical appearance came out negative on Sunday morning, adding that the police had secretly examined the teen at different hospitals. Took samples and sent them for DNA testing.



Another officer told how the tampering of the sample was detected."On Sunday at 11 am, the first blood sample of the minor was collected at Sassoon. As a precautionary measure after the physical appearance report came negative, it was decided that a second sample needed to be collected. It was collected at Aundh Hospital. He said, "The report states that the father's DNA sample does not match the sample collected at Sassoon, which means he was not the biological father of the teen." indicating sample manipulation)."

Sorry, you have Javascript Disabled! To see this page as it is meant to appear, please enable your Javascript!

Pune: The three-member committee probing the alleged tampering of blood samples of the teenage driver involved in the Porsche car accident on Tuesday visited Sassoon General Hospital here and also met the police officer investigating the case.



In a related development, a local court sent the father of a 17-year-old boy to police custody till May 31 in a case of 'kidnapping' of the family driver.



The committee headed by Dr Pallavi Sapele, Dean, Grant Medical College, JJ Group of Hospitals, reached Sassoon Hospital early in the day.



"We will investigate the sequence of events after the accident. The investigation will be conducted as per rules and a report will be submitted to the government," Dr Saple told reporters.,



On May 19, the police arrested Dr Ajay Taware, head of the forensic medicine department of the government hospital, Dr Srihari Halnor, chief medical officer, and others for allegedly throwing away the minor's blood sample after the accident and taking other blood samples in its place. Staff member Atul Ghatkamble has been arrested. Another person's blood samples that contained no trace of alcohol.



The committee also visited the office of Pune Crime Branch which has taken over the accident case.







"We will submit our comments to the state government and it is the government's prerogative to decide what action it wants to take," De Supple said. He said, “The government has directed us to submit the report as soon as possible.,



Sources said the committee members visited the casualty department and understood the process of blood sample collection, its preservation and sending it to the forensic science laboratory.







Two IT professionals were killed when a speeding Porsche car, allegedly driven by a 17-year-old boy, hit their motorcycle in the Kalyani Nagar area here on the morning of May 1. Police claim that the blood report is a vital evidence and that the teen had visited two pubs before the incident.



On Tuesday, Judicial Magistrate First Class AA Pandey sent the girl's father, builder Visha Agarwal, to police custody till May 31 in the case where the girl and her father Surendra Agarwal are accused of pressurizing the family's driver to take the blame for the accident. Is. To save the boy.



In this case, the minor's grandfather Surendra Aggarwal was already arrested for kidnapping the driver and keeping him in illegal confinement.On Tuesday, Magistrate Pandey extended his police custody till May 31.



Vishal Aggarwal (50) was earlier arrested under the Juvenile Justice Act for endangering a minor by giving him a car.







Following Dr Taware's arrest, a letter dated 2023 from local NCP MLA Sunil Tingre and Maharashtra Medical Education Minister Hasan Mushrif has surfaced, recommending that the doctor be given the additional charge of Medical Superintendent.



In the letter dated December 26, 2023, Tingre said he knew Dr. Tavare, who has served as superintendent and discharged his duties well during the COVID-19 pandemic. “I request you to consider giving Taware the additional charge of Medical Superintendent,” the letter said.,



The letter also contained a handwritten note from Mushrif, in which the Dean of Sassu Hospital was instructed to give additional charge to Dr. Taware.



Mushrif's note mentioned that, as per the rules, a person must be considered for the post of professor, and the (then) medical superintendent did not meet the criteria.



Tingre said in a statement on Tuesday that since he is an MLA, many people come to him for recommendation letters and such letters issued by him always include a note that action should be taken as per the rules.



Questions were also raised after it emerged that Tingre had visited Yerwad police station after the May 19 accident. Police admitted that they visited the police station, but claimed that it had no impact on the investigation.Meanwhile, state Congress chief Nana Patole alleged that Sassoon hospital was a "five-star hotel for criminals" and that the Central Bureau of Investigation should investigate the car accident case as it appeared to be political interference to save the "rich accused". Has been done He further claimed that the son of an MLA was also in the car with the teenager.



Patole also demanded the resignation of Deputy Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who holds the Home portfolio.