LIVE UPDATES

Latest News Today Live Updates June 10, 2024: TDP leader allegedly murdered by YSRCP activists in Andhra Pradesh's Kurnool district

37 min read . Updated: 10 Jun 2024, 06:23 PM IST

Latest News Today Live Updates: Today's news roundup to get a lowdown of global and local events and developments. This live blog gives you the day's most important news on current affairs you have an interest.

A massive search operation is currently underway in the Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir following a horrific terror attack on Sunday evening that left at least 10 pilgrims dead and 33 others injured. The Indian Army, supported by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and drones, is combing through dense forest areas in and around the incident site.

The tragic incident unfolded around 6:10 pm when terrorists ambushed a bus carrying pilgrims from the Shiv Khori shrine to Katra. The attack caused the driver to lose control, and the bus plunged into a gorge in the Pouni area of Reasi district, which borders Rajouri district.

Reasi District Commissioner Vishesh Mahajan confirmed the toll of 10 deaths and 33 injuries on Sunday night. The rescue operations have been completed, and the injured have been taken to Naraina and Reasi District hospitals, according to Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Reasi, Mohita Sharma.

“The identities of the passengers were not confirmed. Initial reports suggest they belong to Uttar Pradesh,” he added.

Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, Manoj Sinha, strongly condemned the cowardly terror attack and assured action against those responsible. “Our security forces and JKP have launched a joint operation to hunt down the terrorists,” he said in a post on X (formerly Twitter).

Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been apprised of the situation and has directed that all the injured be provided the best possible medical care and assistance. “PM has also directed that all those behind this heinous act will be punished soon,” added the J&K LG.

Defence Expert Hemant Mahajan said, “We have invited dignitaries from all the neighborhood countries except Pakistan for today’s swearing-in ceremony of PM Modi and the council of ministers. If this attack occurs at this moment, its objective is very clear.”

“If you see, tourism has increased in Kashmir, which gives opportunities to the residents to do their business and get jobs. Such terrorist attacks will damage everything,” he said.

“Amarnath Yatra is going to start and that goes through the route on which the attack took place… Security forces led by the Kashmir should take offensive actions to either capture or kill those who are involved in these attacks,” he added.

(Inputs from ANI)

NEW DELHI (AP) — India is investigating an attack in which suspected militants fired at a bus carrying Hindu pilgrims in Indian-controlled Kashmir, killing nine and injuring 33, officials said Monday.

The attack caused the vehicle to fall into a deep gorge Sunday in Jammu province’s Reasi district. The bus was carrying pilgrims to the base camp of the famed Hindu temple Mata Vaishno Devi.

A team from the National Investigation Agency has reached the site of the attack, the Press Trust of India news agency reported. Security forces also were trying to track down those suspected to be responsible.

Jammu and Kashmir Lt. Gov. Manoj Sinha announced compensation of $11,975 each for families of those killed, as well as nearly $600 to those who were injured.

Federal minister Amit Shah said Sunday he was in touch with Sinha and the local administration was providing speedy medical attention. “The culprits of this dastardly attack will not be spared and will face the wrath of the law,” he posted on social media platform X.

A police officer said some of the victims had gunshot wounds and blamed the attack on Muslim militants who are fighting Indian rule in Kashmir. No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack, which left 33 others injured.

Rebel groups have been fighting since 1989 for Kashmir’s independence or merger with neighboring Pakistan. Most Muslim Kashmiris support the rebel goal of uniting the territory, either under Pakistani rule or as an independent country.

New Delhi insists the Kashmir militancy is Pakistan-sponsored terrorism. Pakistan denies the charge, and most Kashmiris consider it a legitimate freedom struggle.

Tens of thousands of civilians, rebels and government forces have been killed in the conflict.

Nuclear-armed rivals India and Pakistan each administer part of Kashmir, but both claim the territory in its entirety.

New Delhi — An attack by unidentified militants in the Indian-controlled portion of the restive Himalayan region of Kashmir left nine people dead and 33 others injured Sunday, police said. Suspected terrorists opened fire on a bus carrying Hindu pilgrims, making the driver lose control and sending the bus plunging into a gorge in the mountainous region, district police said.

The bus was on its way to the famous Hindu shrine of Mata Vaishno Devi, in the Katra region, when it came under fire on a mountain road.

Videos posted online and aired by Indian media showed bodies lying on a rocky slope running down one side of the highway.

A wounded survivor of a militant attack on a bus carrying Hindu pilgrims in Reasi town, Indian-controlled Kashmir, arrives at a hospital in Jammu, June 10, 2024. AFP/Getty

Police and paramilitary forces had wrapped up search and rescue operations by Monday, but the hunt for the attackers continued.

No group claimed responsibility for the attack, but the district police said militants had "ambushed the bus."

"Around 6 p.m., militants fired upon the bus," Mohita Sharma, Senior Superintendent of Police for the Jammu and Kashmir region's Reasi district, told media. "The driver lost control, resulting in the bus going down into the gorge."

She said at least two militants were believed to have fled after the attack and that a manhunt was underway.

Indian army personnel look on during a search operation in Reasi, in Indian-controlled Kashmir, June 10, 2024, after police said gunmen ambushed a bus packed with Hindu pilgrims. AFP/Getty

Indian officials said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was sworn in for his third consecutive term in office just hours before the attack, had taken "stock of the situation" and asked for the best medical care for those injured. The election campaign was marked by Hindu-Muslim sectarian divisions that opponents of Modi's Hindu nationalist BJP party accused him of exploiting for political gain.

Rahul Gandhi, leader of the opposition Indian National Congress, described the attack as "saddening" and "shameful" and said it highlighted the "true picture of the worrying security situation in Jammu and Kashmir."

An armed conflict between Pakistan-backed Muslim militant groups and Indian military forces has simmered for more than 60 years in Kashmir, with regular small-scale violence and occasional flare-ups that have left tens of thousands of people dead.

Nuclear-armed neighbors India and Pakistan have fought two wars over the predominantly Muslim Kashmir region. While administration of the area is divided between the countries, they both claim full ownership.

Eight pilgrims were killed and 19 injured in a similar attack in the region in 2017, when militants attacked a bus carrying them back from the famous Amarnath Cave Temple in south Kashmir.

Jammu and Kashmir (J-K) Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday announced an ex-gratia amounting to Rs 10 lakh each for the next of kin of the deceased, and Rs 50,000 each for the injured in the Reasi terror attack.

“A control room has been created by the district administration to provide all necessary assistance. A joint security force temporary HQ by J&K Police, Army, and CRPF has been set up at the site, and a search operation is in progress to neutralize the perpetrators of the Reasi terror attack,” a statement issued by the LG’s office said.

According to officials, the rescue operations are complete, and the injured have been taken to Naraina and Reasi District hospitals. LG Sinha also visited the injured at the hospital.

“The bus driver was attacked by the terrorists, after which the bus fell into the ditch. Nine people have lost their lives, and around 37 people have been injured. The rescue operation started yesterday. The police, CRPF, and Army have launched the hunt operation,” LG Sinha said while speaking to reporters in Jammu.

“The people responsible for this will be severely punished. Our priority is to save the injured. We have decided to provide Rs 10 lakh to the families of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured.”

A team from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is assessing the situation in Reasi, and the NIA’s forensic team is working on collecting evidence.

As per the officials, the bus coming from the Shiv Khori shrine to Katra was targeted by terrorists at around 6:10 pm when it reached the Pouni area of Reasi district, bordering Rajouri district. “Terrorists opened fire, causing the driver to lose control and the bus to plunge into a gorge,” they said.

“I went for darshan of Shiv Khori. While returning, some people opened fire on our bus. Later, the bus fell into a ditch. Several people were injured in the incident. The firing did not stop even after the bus fell. I think there were 2-3 (terrorists) there. My son saw a man firing on our bus from behind,” a survivor told ANI, recounting the attack.

Another survivor said, “After having darshan at Mata Vaishno Devi, I went to Shiv Khori. While returning from there, after 4-5 km, bullets were fired on our bus. The driver was shot, and then some people were also injured in the firing.”

Jammu and Kashmir police said earlier in the day that at least two ‘terrorists’ were involved in the attack. “As per eyewitnesses, two (terrorists) were there as of now. A combing operation is underway in the area. Five teams have been formed to search the area,” Reasi Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Mohita Sharma told ANI.

Detailing the attack incident that took place at around 6:10 pm on Sunday, SSP Sharma said that the militants fired upon the bus yesterday. “Nine people are reportedly feared dead, and 33 were injured and are being treated in different hospitals,” she said.

Speaking to ANI, Bhushan Uppal, a former Sarpanch, claimed that the firing continued for about 15-20 minutes, and the driver was shot in the head.

“As soon as we came to know that terrorists attacked the vehicle, we rushed to the spot and started rescuing people traveling in the bus that the terrorists targeted. When we asked the injured people, they told us that one of the terrorists shot the bus driver in the head. The driver lost control, and the vehicle fell into the ditch. They (the terrorists) did not stop firing and kept firing for 15 to 20 minutes, because of which some passengers also sustained bullet injuries,” he said.

(With ANI input)