The Government has changed the regulations for getting a driving licence in India. To tackle deficiencies of obtaining the driving licence process, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways introduced major changes to regulations in India.

New Driving Licence Rules in India

The Regulations will come into effect from 1 June 2024. Individuals don’t need to take the driving test at the government Regional Transport Office (RTO), instead private institutions are now authorised to conduct the tests and issue certificates saying the people they trained can be given driving licences.

There are the key changes in the driving licence rules in India:

Applicants will have the option of taking the driving test at the nearest centre according to their choice instead of the current practice of taking the test at the respective RTOs.

Without a valid licence are strict now, with fines ranging from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,000. If the Minor is found driving a vehicle then action can be taken against his parents with a heavy fine of Rs. 25,000 will be imposed.

The documentation required for obtaining a driver’s licence has also been streamlined with specific necessities, that means they will inform the applicants beforehand of the specific documents required for the type of licence they need.

To make India’s roads more environmentally sustainable the ministry is looking at ways to phase out 9,000 old government vehicles and improve the emission standard of the others.

Applicants can submit their application online by visiting the official website of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways- parivahan.gov.in, and for the manual process they can also visit their RTOs to file an application.

How to apply for the Driving Licence in India

You can apply for the Driving Licence done in two ways:

Online mode:

First visit to the official website parivahan.gov.in.

Select the online services tab and click the option of Driving Licence Related Services.

Select the state from which you wish to apply for.

Click the option of Apply for Driving License.

Then complete your applicant details.

Upload the scanned copies of your documents.

Pay the application fee.

According to the new rules of Driving Licence it’s an optional for the driving test.

If you need for the driving test then book a slot for a driving licence test.

Appear for the test as per the schedule and Driving licence is delivered to the applicants.

Offline mode:

The form can be downloaded from the state transport official website, but you can also visit the nearest RTO to procure Form 4.

Fill up the application form and submit it with other documents like age proof and address proof at the nearest RTO.

Pay the application fee.

Book the slot for the Driving Licence, It’s optional.

If you want then give the test at the RTO office and then you will obtain a driving licence if you pass the test.

Eligibility Criteria for the Driving Licence in India

The eligibility for a Driving licence is according to the different types of vehicles and documents:

Vehicles and documents Criteria Vehicles without the gears with engine capacity up to 50cc 16 years of age, parental consent Vehicles with gears 18 years of the age and must be aware of the traffic rules and regulations Commercial vehicles 20 years of the age, Should have to complete formal education up to 8th grade, Should be trained from a government or government affiliated training centre. Documents for the age proof Birth certificate, School matriculation certificate, Attested copy of the passport, PAN Card, Passport. Documents for the address proof Voter ID, Ration Card, Valid Passport, LIC policy bond, State or central Government payslip. Others Documents Learner’s Licence (Optional), Application Form 4, Application form 5 if applying for commercial driving licence, Three passport size photographs, Registration certificate, Car insurance proof, Fitness certificate for transport vehicles, Tax payment proof.

Fee Structure for the Driving Licence in India

You can pay the fee either through SBI challan or online, there are the Driving Licence fee structure for the different categories of licence are:

Licence issue Fee Address Change Rs. 200 Driving Licence issue Rs, 200 International Driving Permit Issue Rs. 1,000 Driving Licence Renewal Rs. 200 Driving School licence issue and renewal Rs. 10,000 Fee for appeal against RTO Rs. 500 Issuing driving school with duplicate licence Rs. 5,000

Types of Driving Licence

There are the types of Driving licence:

Sno

District name

Name of the Office

Name of the Officer

Mobile No

Two-letter state codes of India



This is a list of the Indian Regional Transport Offices and the assigned codes for vehicle registration. These are broken down to states or union territories and their districts.

Code Office location Jurisdiction area Annotations AN 01 Port Blair South Andaman, North & Middle Andaman and Car Nicobar

The Andhra Pradesh state government has decided to issue uniform registration numbers for vehicles across Andhra Pradesh. From February 2019, all new vehicles in Andhra Pradesh are registered with AP-39 code by default. Andhra Pradesh is the first state to implement the "one state-one code" policy.[1]

The state government has launched new series (AP-40) in 2023.[2]

Specifics in the Andhra Pradesh series Scheme and/or example Meaning AP 01 A 1234 to AP 01 SZ 1234 The letters A to S are reserved to passenger vehicles. AP-01-Px : AP 01 P 1234 , AP 01 PB 1234 AP-01-P is specifically used for state police vehicles. AP-01-Gx : AP 01 G 1234 , AP 01 GB 1234 AP-01-G is specifically used for AP Government vehicles. AP 01 T 1234 to AP 01 YZ 1234 The letters T, U, V, W, X, Y are reserved for commercial vehicles. AP-01-Z : AP 01 Z xxxx The letter Z is reserved for the State Road Transport (APSRTC) buses.

Code Office location Jurisdiction area Annotations CH-01

CH-02

CH-03

CH-04 Chandigarh Chandigarh district

Code Office location Jurisdiction area Annotations DD-01 Silvassa Dadra and Nagar Haveli Previously DN-09, before the merger of UT of Daman & Diu and UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli DD-02 Diu DD-03 Daman

Specifics in the Delhi series Example or scheme Meaning DL −1 A The letter A is reserved for ambulances. DL-1B The letter B is reserved for DMRC feeder buses. DL −*C; CA - CZ; CAA... The letter C is reserved for fuel powered/electric cars. DL −1 D The letter D is reserved for two/four wheeled private vehicles driven by handicapped drivers. DL-*ER,ERA and so on The letter series ER is reserved for electric rickshaws. DL-2F The letter F is reserved for vanity (VIP) series numbers for passenger vehicles. DL-1G The letter G is reserved for heavy trucks. DL-1K The letter K is reserved for school vans. DL-1L The letter L is reserved for light trucks. DL-1M The letter M is reserved for midsize trucks. DL-1N The letter N is reserved for self-drive vehicles (comes under commercial vehicle category). DL-1P The letter P is reserved for buses, including DTC, DIMTS, tourist and even heavy school buses. DL-1Q The letter Q is reserved for phatphat seva or rural service share taxis. DL-1R, The letter R is reserved for auto rickshaws. DL-1RT, DL-1RTA and so on The letter series RT is reserved for radio/app taxis. DL −*S; SA - SZ; SAA... The letter S is reserved for fuel powered/electric scooters and motorcycles. DL-1T The letter T is reserved for taxis. DL-1V The letter V is reserved for light buses. DL-1W, DL-2W The letter W is reserved for rural service share taxis. DL-1Y The letter Y is reserved for commercial private taxis. DL-1Z The letter Z is reserved for commercial private taxis. DL-*CNA, CNB and so on, DL-*SNA, SNB and so on These letter series are used for vehicles registered in sub-RTOs. These areas now have newer RTOs under which their records are now available.

Administrative map of Gujarat with RTO codes for vehicle registration

^ All GSRTC buses are registered here.

Specifics in the KA series Alphabets Meaning (No alphabet) Example: KA 09 2418 This series is reserved for all types of commercial vehicles. (Yellow Board) A, B, C, D These four letters are reserved for all types of commercial vehicles. (Yellow Board) E, H, J, K, L, Q, R, S, U, V, W, X, Y These letters are reserved for private two wheelers. F, FA The letter F is reserved for KSRTC, KKRTC, NWKRTC and BMTC buses. G The letter G is reserved for all Karnataka government vehicles including police vehicles, ambulances, legislative assembly vehicles, municipal corporation vehicles, etc. M, N, P, Z These letters are reserved for private passenger vehicles. T The letter T is reserved for tractors and trailers. I, O These two letters are not offered as they can lead to confusion with 1 (one) and 0 (zero).

Code Office location Jurisdiction Annotations LA-01 Kargil Kargil District Previously JK-07 LA-02 Leh Leh District Previously JK-10

Code Office location Jurisdiction area Annotations LD-01 Kavaratti Kavaratti LD-02 Agatti Agatti LD-03 Amini Amini LD-04 Androth Androth LD-05 Kadmat Kadmat LD-06 Kiltan Kiltan LD-07 Kalpeni Kalpeni LD-08 Kalpeni Kalpeni LD-09 Minicoy Minicoy

Code Office location Jurisdiction area Annotations MN-01 Imphal West Imphal West MN-02 Churachandpur Churachandpur MN-03 Kangpokpi Kangpokpi MN-04 Thoubal Thoubal MN-05 Bishnupur Bishnupur MN-06 Imphal East Imphal East MN-07 Ukhrul Ukhrul

Code Office location Jurisdiction area Annotations MZ-01 Aizawl MZ-02 Lunglei MZ-03 Saiha MZ-04 Champhai MZ-05 Kolasib MZ-06 Serchhip MZ-07 Lawngtlai MZ-08 Mamit

Due to the official respelling of the state name in English (from "Orissa" to "Odisha"),[3] the Transport Department modified the state letter on the plates with OD substituting OR on 1 September 2012.[4]

Code Office location Jurisdiction area Annotations OD-01 Balasore OD-02 Bhubaneswar OD-03 Bolangir OD-04 Chandikhol OD-05 Cuttack OD-06 Dhenkanal OD-07 Ganjam OD-08 Kalahandi Bhawanipatna OD-09 Keonjhar OD-10 Koraput OD-11 Mayurbhanj OD-12 Phulbani Khandamal OD-13 Puri OD-14 Rourkela OD-15 Sambalpur OD-16 Sundergarh OD-17 Baragarh OD-18 Rayagada OD-19 Angul OD-20 Gajapati OD-21 Jagatsinghpur OD-22 Bhadrak OD-23 Jharsuguda OD-24 Nabarangpur OD-25 Nayagarh OD-26 Nuapada OD-27 Boudh OD-28 Debagarh OD-29 Kendrapara OD-30 Malkangiri OD-31 Subarnapur OD-32 Bhanjanagar OD-33 Bhubaneswar including OD-02 Bhubaneswar OD-34 Jajpur OD-35 Talcher

Code Office location Jurisdiction area Annotations PY-01 Puducherry PY-02 Karaikal PY-03 Mahe PY-04 Yanam PY-05 Oulgaret

Districts of Rajasthan with RTO codes

In Tamil Nadu, specific series are exclusively used for certain type of vehicles

All State Transport Corporation vehicles start the series with 'N' or 'AN'

All Government owned vehicles start the series with 'G', 'AG', 'BG', 'CG' or 'DG', Etc., (all Combination of G)

Telangana RTO codes before the reorganization of districts

Note * Part of GHMC Hyderabad but not part of Hyderabad Dist.

Specifics in the Telangana series Scheme and/or example Meaning TG XX A 1234 to TG XX SZ 1234 The letters A to S are reserved for passenger vehicles. TG-09-Px : TG 09 PA 1234 , TG 09 PB 1234 TG-09-P of Hyderabad Central RTO is specifically used for Telangana Police vehicles. TG XX T 1234 to TG XX YZ 1234 The letters T, U, V, W, X, Y are reserved for commercial vehicles. TG-xx-Z : TG XX Z 1234 to TG XX ZZ 1234 The letter Z is reserved for the State Road Transport (TSRTC) buses..

References [ edit ]